Add documentation for publishing-analytics-events-to-external-systems (#4392)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/api-analytics/samples/publishing-analytics-events-to-external-systems.md

---
title: Publishing Analytics Events to External Systems - API Manager Documentation 4.0.0
---

# Publishing Analytics Events to External Systems

## Introduction

> It is possible to log and publish analytics events to external systems. This will guide you on how to create a sample to log analytics events and to publish those logged events to an external system. For the demonstration purpose we have selected ELK as the external system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of publishing analytics events to the cloud, It is also possible to log the same events and publish them to external systems. This guide will explain the steps required to do it. For demonstration purposes, we have selected ELK as the external system.
```

Author: Fixed with ea12a8a83344ae33c5b9070693ff903eccd85600

        public Map<String, String> getConfiguration() {
            return null;
        }
    }

#### Build the Project

Build the project using,

    mvn clean install

## Configuring the Sample

This section will cover the steps required to configure WSO2 API-M for the sample created above. The steps covered are adding the jar, configuring deployment.toml and enabling the logs.

### Adding the jar

Place the created jar file inside `wso2am-4.0.0/repository/components/lib`

### Configuring deployment.toml

Edit `apim.analytics` configurations in the `deployment.toml` located inside `wso2am-4.0.0/repository/conf` with the following configuration.

    [apim.analytics]
    enable = true
    properties."publisher.reporter.class" = "<FullyQualifiedClassNameOfMetricReporterImplClass>"
    logger.reporter.level = "INFO"

### Enabling Logs

To enable logging for reporter, edit `log4j2.properties` file located inside `wso2am-4.0.0/repository/conf` 

Add reporter to the loggers list,

    loggers = reporter, ...(list of other available loggers)

Add bellow configurations after the loggers,

    logger.reporter.name = <PackageName>
    logger.reporter.level = INFO

## Visualizing Logs

> WSO2 API-M logs are structured in a way that we can easily plug them in to a commercially available tool in order to visualize them. As a result this gives the capability to monitor analytics traffic for a particular API. For this purpose ELK is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WSO2 API-M logs are structured in a way that we can easily plug them into a log visualization available tool in order to visualize them. As a result, this gives the capability to monitor analytics traffic for a particular API. For this purpose, ELK is selected.
```

Author: Fixed with ea12a8a83344ae33c5b9070693ff903eccd85600

#### Installing Kibana

[Install Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack-get-started/7.13/get-started-elastic-stack.html#install-kibana) according to your operating system.

[Launch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack-get-started/7.13/get-started-elastic-stack.html#_launch_the_kibana_web_interface) the Kibana web interface.

#### Installing Filebeat

[Install Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/7.13/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#installation) according to your operating system.

[Connect](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/7.13/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#set-connection) to Elastic Stack.

#### Collecting Log Data

Add bellow configurations to feed WSO2 API-M logs in to Filebeat,

Replace `<API-M HOME>` with the location of your `API-M Home` directory.

    filebeat.inputs:
    - type: log
    enabled: true
    paths:
        - /<API-M HOME>/repository/logs/wso2carbon.log

[Set up](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/7.13/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#setup-assets) assets

> In case of a failure with the above command use below to set up assets,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of a failure with the above command, use below to set up assets,
```

    filebeat -e

[Start](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/7.13/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#start) Filebeat

### View Data on Kibana

Filebeat comes with pre-built Kibana dashboards and UIs for visualizing log data.

[Launch Kibana and discover](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/7.13/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#view-data) log data.

> Once you have followed and completed above steps successfully you will be able to visualize log data as shown below,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have followed and completed the above steps successfully, you will be able to visualize log data as shown below,
```

![Logs listed in kibana]({{base_path}}/assets/img/analytics/samples/logs_listed_in_kibana.png)

#### Filtering Total Analytics Traffic

It is possible to view the analytics traffic by applying a filter as shown below,

Replace `<MetricReporterImplClass>` with the class name given to the MetricReporter implementation class that you have created with your sample.

> ![Total analytics traffic filter]({{base_path}}/assets/img/analytics/samples/total_analytics_traffic_filter.png)

Reviewer 2: All images should be zoomable.
Do not add _ in image names. Instead replace it with - a hyphen.
